# Tracker

Tracker is a command line utility for creating machine learning (ML) projects using a template project structure, and running and tracking experiments. The goal of Tracker is to ease the task of creating reproducible research within ML.

Underneath Tracker runs our adapted versions of Guild AI and the Cookiecutter templating project.

## Installing Tracker

We recommend that you either use virtualenv or Docker.

```bash
# Install Tracker Dependencies
sudo apt update
sudo apt install git make

# Install Tracker
git clone https://github.com/dti-research/tracker
cd tracker
pip install -e .

# Enable bash autocompletion for Tracker on boot
echo ""  >> ~/.bashrc
echo "# Bash autocompletion for Tracker"  >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'eval "$(_TRACKER_COMPLETE=source tracker)"'  >> ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc
```


## Creating a new project

Creating a new project is easy, simply run the following command and follow the instructions.

```bash
tracker create project
```

Tracker will prompt you for a version control location (git/svn/ssh/...) where a repository will be created automatically, and all files generated by this command will be synced to the remote location. 


## Creating an experiment

By envoking the command below you'll get an experiment configuration file wherein all parameters for the trial should be placed.

```bash
tracker create experiment
```

## Running an experiment

When you're ready to run an experiment, simply run the command below replacing the NAME with your actual experiment's name.

```bash
tracker run experiment NAME
```

Note that by default, Tracker will prompt you for a commit message and push your changes to the user-specified remote location, subsequently obtaining a commit hash which can be stored and linked to the conducted trial. 
